[[Introduction]]

In Titian’s traditional painting "Venus of Urbino" he mirrors his world through his painting techniques and choices as well as the origin of the painting and its name itself. The title of Titian’s Painting “Venus of Urbino” directly represents the time period in which he was living as during the renaissance artists started the rebirth of Classical Greece and Roman artworks and Venus being the Greek goddess of love symbolises this. The ‘Venus of Urbino’ (1538), otherwise called ‘Reclining Venus’, is an oil painting of a reclining nude in an interior by the Italian painter Titian. The main goal of a wedding picture was to symbolise eternal love and fertility as shown here through the rounded feminine belly in the centre of composition. Furthermore, the dog sitting at her feet symbolises love and fidelity and the woman’s fidelity. The white sheets and pillows she rests on alludes to her purity and demonstrate what the Duke expected from his wife thus demonstrating that women of this time were to be seen objects of beauty and fragility lest they challenge men. Additionally, Manet’s statement “This woman’s work is exceptional too bad she isn’t a man”, suggests that during this time period women were seen as objects that men painted not painters themselves that were often shunned or rejected for their gender. Moreover, the female body was often stylised beyond what could be considered realistic, exhibiting cultural values of the time as can be seen in Titian’s work. Ultimately, Titian’s “Venus of Urbino” directly reflects his culture and vales indicating what was acceptable by the general public and art critics of the time.

[[Body Paragraph 2]]
