[[Body Paragraph 1]]


Manet's modern oil painting "**Olympia**", reflected his culture and values through his depiction of a courtesan greeting her customer. His artwork breach the codes of morality, decency and academic tradition at the time due to his subject matter. His work reflects Titian's traditional masterpiece "**Venus of Urbino**", in the pose of the female figure but rather than drawing attention to the beauty and divinity of the feminine form as was the norm, Manet sought to challenge the viewer with the woman's piercing gaze aimed at the audience. Manet draws upon the power of her gaze to expose that the woman is not powerless as society believes rather she has her own power in her own right and is able to bring attention to it if she so wishes. He augments this through his use of contrast, with the woman's almost pale white skin in-front of Manet here also exemplifies the male gaze and the objectification and sexualisation of women drawing to light the superiority of men over women during patriarchal French society. This is accentuated through Manet's statement "*Too bad she's not a man*" with reference to artworks and the importance of women and society's continued ignorance of their value. Manet's piece reflects his culture and his world as the hiring of the services of a prostitute during the Modernism era was quite common and often was regarded as a fundamental piece of culture within society. Furthermore, Manet's challenge to the pre-existing societal culture and artistic conventions reflected the artists own opinions and values as he was part of the modernism movement where artists sought to dismiss previous requirements for art and simply paint art for art's sake. They wanted to paint what they felt they wanted to not what other people said or did and this can be seen quite clearly in Manet's "**Olympia**". Thus, Manet's artwork exemplifies how art is a reflection of an artist's culture and context. 



[[Body Paragraph 3]]