#journal 



been a while again, honestly don’t know what I’ve been doing with myself the last few weeks, been was ting my time play ing video games and not working on maths and the things I should be doing, instead I rediscovered or more like increased my book addiction not stopping always sleep depriving myself and started playing rlcraft again which is probably going to keep going and going until I finally reach the endgame / late midgame and not be bothered to put in the grind to move forward. AHHHHHHHHHHHH. typing is so much fun though. I really should study for english essay tomorrow. apparently my [[Attempt 2]] of the [[Draft Essay]] was good so that raises my hopes but then again that draft was written over the span of approximately two hours and used quite of help from other sources. I really got to get my shit together. I’ve probably gained like 5kgs from being sick that past few days and haven’t been contributing to the software assignment nearly as much as I should have been speaking of which I’m gonna go do the logbook entry for that right now. 

5 mins later logbook entry is done. 


I really need to pull myself together and try and get that supreme focus mode I had going at the beginning of term one. for history I’ve started to look at some of the [[Winston Churchill Key Facts]] for my essay and really need to start working on that too. tomorrow I’m home alone when I get back from sport and we all know I‘m not really gonna get much done, will probably end up either playing rlcraft, F1 on the xbox or some of both and maybe just maybe sneak in some math in there as well if it is possible. 


well thats today’s rant complete hopefully I can pull my shit together. 