Welcome back to my journal for day i don't even know what the hell this is now. Anywho, new keeb be going well thinking about modding it tomorrow when parents go out for shopping, badminton was very boring yesterday just sat around doing nothing the entire time. just got a big wakeup call from software essentially telling me to get a move on otherwise i'd fall behind on work. changing typing style is going alright slowly but surely getting there. english has been fine going to finish watching sax's Othello next Monday and then probably move onto essay prep. still unsure as to what i want to drop next year cause art is a very viable option just not with 13 units, soo idk. maybe drop extension math ???????? uhm yeah. on the bright side i'm thinking about getting into game development again making my own game sounds like a really fun and interesting idea. though what that game is going to be is currently an unknown. history is about to get interesting with the "depth study" ish kinda thing research essay and all that jazz, don't know who I am going to write on though need someone probably born ion a time of great crisis like Napolean but also not too well known. idk maybe i'll end up doing Napoleon as french revolution and all that cool. jazz or I'll do someone else. who knows though i better start making a [[Essay Plan Structure]] pretty soon for it otherwise i might be in the mud for this one. hopefully Leclerc dnfs this weekend and i can laugh about it for another year ya know the usual funny stuff would be even funnier than watching him crash Niki Lauda's Ferarri at the historic grand prix. damn that was a good one. [[Othello]] is going alright i think i've mentioned this before but eh what does it matter. damn my fingers are getting tired . too much typing for one day? [[2022-05-24]] was a good day, last day of badminton for the next two weeks hopefully  my wrist heals faster and I don't have to wait too long. welp bye i gotta go sleep didn't get a lot of work done at all today so gotta do it all tomorrow. after a very boring badminton session.Very boring badminton session tomorrow 1 and a half hours of nothing but watching from 7:30am ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh. my. fingers are cramping for some reason so buh bye. 


#journal 