# END OF TERM 2 

damn thats end of term 2 and 66% of year 11 seems like life is passing by at supersonic speeds. it literally seems like yesterday that I was still debating how math would go this term and if I would get a good teacher or not by mr lok is pretty nice but i really got to catch up on maths over this break cause i literally didn’t do any maths for the last two weeks of term. i also need to get back to doing my assignments done on time. rlcraft is nice but it should not be my main focus all the time i cut it really close for things like the  [[Winston Churchill Essay Plan]] really should have done that one earlier than i did it. though to be fair i’m really considering dropping modern history in term 4 i simply need more time to do the things I like namely art and software. I know I can get a pretty good mark for art theory but it’s the major that’s gotten me concerned, i simply don’t know what I am going to do for my major project. I know that I definitely don’t want to delve into painting that’s just a massive pain in the butt. thinking along the lines of a series of cityscapes with linoprints and sketches coupled with some photography. really think i should drop history, for the HSC its two fat essays’s and I might get unlucky and have it the same day as english and that’s just not fun at all. 



Started learning rust-lang so that’s pretty nice it seems like a good way to get into the more nitty gritty style languages such as C. according to their site it can be used for anything from programming your own operating system to creating websites and databases. gonna create a programming notes here in obsidian as well as im learning this so that i can keep track of all the new syntax i have to learn also found a new song that  I found that i like, actually there’s two. 
<iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/1rqqCSm0Qe4I9rUvWncaom?utm_source=generator&theme=0" width="100%" height="80" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"></iframe>
<iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/5ZSl6gDoV6bPPxzmLeneV9?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="80" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"></iframe>

both of these are really nice hopefully i can find similar songs. 



what else hmm there was the passing out parade, that was alright actually sped by quicker than I thought it would …. “took monkey-type break:”  and i only scratched/readjusted **2 times** new record lets go. 


on a more serious note i’m feeling okay for now school ended with a happy moments and not to depressing uk trip is coming up and that’s going to be nice 

maybe?

might go to watch top gun maverick on Monday with Kobe and Kushaagra haven’t finalised the plans for that yet


there is the end of this entry in the journal series, probably the longest one yet clocking in at 546 words and counting. time for me to go do some more rust and then get into some serious swifty boy work

oh and b4 i forget i did my [[Assignment Research Report]] for bib literally on the day and completely neglected the bible bit and that is really REALLY **REALLY** funny to me time for me to get absolutely destroyed by Hodgson but its okay.



613 words :)

#journal 