Today was quite a what would you call it a tiring day, at the time of writing this #journal entry its 8:46pm and i feel like falling over and sleeping till the end. Maths prep has been going i would say good/ok? i don't know guess i will find out tomorrow when i face the test. hopefully it wont be too bad and i'll be able to get a decent mark. 80% is the minimum goal that i am hoping for and hopefully it won't be too hard. planning to finish the rest of practice test 2 and 3 before going to sleep. didn't fully finish [[Wright Reading]] notes today though hopefully I can do it over the weekend once i'm past the exhaustion from the prep for this test. maybe i'll actually get some physical work done on the software assignment. Haven't really touched it since i ran into that bug with the navigation view. 

this time i will 

> [!quote] seriously make an attempt at doing one of these everyday. and maybe jot some other notes down in this app idk. 

also if anyone found this on Github. i don't really care if you read this just my logbook kinda thing i guess. 


btw i started reading cradle again so thats looking up hopefully Dreadgod comes out soon and i can read it. 

thats me over and out. 

oh and i kinda forgot about [[2022-05-14]] entry. idk why maths or something else came up i think "*insert shrug here*". 

oh and one last thing

primary theme looms nice :)

end of journal entry 8:52:33pm

8:54 one more thing i should probably start the bib assignment sometime soon. 

now end