> [!question] How is the portrayal of power in William Shakespeare’s _Othello_ reimagined for a new cultural context and audience in Geoffrey Sax’s _Othello_?
> #english #essay 



###### Attempt 2
----

Demonstrating the danger posed by the machiavel and the consequences of racial and gender inequalities that are accepted as the status Quo, Geoffrey Sax’s Othello (2001) reimagines Shakespeare’s Othello (1603) to portray power as a result of racial bigotry and gender discrimination. Shakespeare represents power as the danger posed by the Machiavel which is used by the amoral to achieve their goals whilst Sax reimagines power through the lens of institutionalised racism that is hidden for political correctness within society. 


Portraying power as the danger posed by the Machiavel, Shakespeare and Sax outline the dangers of cultural narratives surrounding race that the amoral manipulate to achieve their goals. Challenging prejudices against race during his time Shakespeare characterises Othello as the “noble … moor” opposing racial narratives of a xenophobic society and setting up the tragic form. Othello’s characterisation holds true throughout the play as he is inducted as a cultural outsider based upon his race. Brabantio’s outrage against Othello’s and his belief that Othello “enacts practices of cunning hell” uses biblical imagery and links to the contextual belief that blackness indicated sin, further espousing his place as the colonial “other” within the play. Furthermore, playing on Othello’s insecurity regarding his racial context and Cassio and Desdemona’s growing relationship, Iago employs his diabolical nature to manipulate Othello using differing techniques of insidious persuasion. He says  “She did deceive her father” echoing Brabantio’s words at the beginning of the play to diminish his sense of self eroding his trust in others ultimately ending in tragedy; death. His vulnerability is apparent when he internalises cultural narratives of race instinctively employing his own blackness as a metaphor for his wife’s alleged depravity, “Her name,… is now begrim’d and black… as mine own face”. His deterioration as an honourable leader is reflected in his language where he commences the play as an eloquent user of language, faced with conflict playfully saying “keep up your bright swords for the dew will rust them”, where by the end he is reduced to short, monosyllabic responses, “Imprudent Strumpet!”, “I will chop her into messes”; He has become the beast. Ultimately, through the actions of the Machiavel and the decline of Othello as an honourable leader Shakespeare espouses the need for racial tolerance and equality within society. 
 
Challenging the facade of racial equality demonstrated in postmodern society, Sax reimagines the representation of power in his film through the lens of institutionalised racism. He introduces this through the irony of the commissioner’s speech where he says “we’re pretty bloody good” juxtaposed with rioters and flames erupting as the people search for an answer for the murder of Billy Coates. This exemplifies the xenophobia of society, and the false narrative that’s perpetuated about racial equality and the dramatic irony of the commissioner saying “it’s not about race”.  Sax draws on the tragic form of Shakespeare’s play mimicking the dignified and honourable form of Othello at the beginning of the play. Furthermore, when Othello is offered the commissioner’s job he says he “knew [his] worth. just never thought [he’d] get a chance to prove it” demonstrating that he is aware of the inequality yet is powerless to affect it. Moreover, through Jago’s use of a bunker chat on a neo-Nazi website to incite a racist attack, Sax draws our attention to the increased danger of prejudice given the hidden nature of the forum and implicating the pretence of progress society has created for the sake of political correctness. Lastly, Sax ends the play with a close up of Ben Jago becoming the commissioner after Othello’s suicide, where he reframes the words of Iago in Shakespeare’s play as Jago’s ironic voiceover tells the audience not to “talk to [him] about race” as we know that was exactly what motivated him to pursue Othello’s downfall. Ultimately, Sax reimagines the portrayal of power in Shakespeare’s Othello through the lens of institutional racism to expose the facade racial equality society has created for the sake of political correctness. 

Despite progressive movements towards gender equality and third wave feminism, Sax’s Othello reflects Shakespeare’s depiction of women as objects in a patriarchal society that are the property and tools of men. Shakespeare represents women as possessions financially dependent on their fathers till they were handed over to the rule of their husbands. We can see this reflected in Othello’s references to Desdemona as a prize “I have won his daughter”. The depersonalising tone makes us see her as an object to be worn. Furthermore, Iago’s characterisation of women as carnal and unreliable lesser creatures “Saints, in your injuries, devils being offended”, demonstrates the extreme gender stereotyping present during Shakespeare’s context where the unfaithfulness of the wife could lead to the husband’s reputation being tarnished. Contrastingly, while Sax does allow women to have some agency and autonomy within the workforce this autonomy doesn’t transfer to their daily lives. This is shown where John Othello’s much like Shakespeare’s play refers to Dessie as “"other men’s leavings” alluding to the subordinate position of women. Moreover, Othello’s discomfort with Dessie’s assertive nature alludes to the preconceived idea that women are supposed to be submissive. This is emphasised by the misogynistic views of women Jago shares with John when he says “if only [women] knew how we idealise them”. Ultimately, Sax’s reframes the portrayal of gender stereotypes and the objectification of women in Shakespeare’s Othello to draw our attention to the lack of equality in the postmodern world despite progressive movements to fill the gap. 

Thus, Sax’s Othello (2001) reimagines the patriarchal perspective of race and gender in Shakespeare’s Othello (1603) to demonstrate the facade of equality society has created to suit it’s outwards appearance while still maintaining an insidious culture of racial bigotry and gender inequality. 