> [!question] How is the portrayal of power in William Shakespeare’s _Othello_ reimagined for a new cultural context and audience in Geoffrey Sax’s _Othello_?
> #english #essay 



###### AtteMPT 1
---

Society may be reshaped, reimagined even remade over time but the thirst for power, to be the best, to be at the pinnacle of society better than those next to you is a feeling that can never be quenched. Reflected in Shakespeare's Othello through the actions of Iago whose racial standpoint blinds him to the truth and spurs him on a quest of power fuelled by vengeance demonstrating the xenophobia common amongst the populace of Elizabethan England. Contrastingly, Sax's film set in a postmodern society explores cultural narratives of race that while being claimed to not exist are hidden between layers of surreptitious meaning existing amongst those who believe they have complete power over the racially inferior. Furthermore, the  Ultimately, the portrayal of power is reimagined through the demonstration of power and the way it is expressed through the views of Iago. 


Intertextual connections from Shakespeare's Aristotelean tragedy set in a xenophobic world and Sax's postmodern film use racial bigotry to transform our understanding of race, condemning the outcomes of blind hate in a thirst for power. Demonstrating racial narratives and the cultural barriers hindering parts of society Shakespeare's characterisation of Othello as a cultural outsider due to his race foretell's Iago's yearning for revenge against *"the moor"*. This characterisation is in complete contrast with Othello's mannerism's as Shakespeare establishes him as a *"noble"* character whose *"services... shall out tongue"* those who bear him misfortune demonstrating Othello's demeanour which is one that commands respect yet that respect is one that is begrudgingly given due to his race. Furthermore, Iago's continued self imposed arrogance is demonstrated when he says *"loveliness in favour, sympathy in years, manners and beauties; all which the Moor is defective in"* continues the idea of racial narratives and the precedence of the white male who presides over the *black ram"* with his racial superiority thus portraying power as a racial concern. Moreover, Othello's comment *"Haply, for I am black"* shows his internalisation of the racial narratives of race present in Elizabethan England through the manipulation of Iago further emphasising the portrayal of power as the depiction of race and this is symbolic of his giving up of his own power and noble character and submission to the will of Iago who has enraptured Othello with his machiavellian nature which leads to his death . Ultimately, Shakespeare demonstrates the representation of power through the delineation of race. 

Contrastingly, Sax's recontextualises the portrayal of power by manipulating cultural narratives of race to reflect a more modern standpoint through his depiction of institutional racism. Influenced by the 1980s Brixton riots Sax outlines the role of institutional racism within a postmodern society through the representation of coloured people. We see Othello as the only "Black" or non-white officer in the annual meeting of the police forces where the Commissioner is speaking about getting more people of different cultures into the police force, symbolic of the racial prejudice present in society and the lack of progress society has made even though as a whole it has appeared to advance. Furthermore, when Othello is presented with the opportunity to take on the commissioner's role he says that he "[knew] his worth... just never thought he would get a chance to prove it" once again demonstrating the institutional racism and the power that is still held amongst those who were once regarded as civilised. Additionally, Jago's continuance of breaking the fourth wall to confide with the viewer directly makes the viewer complicit in his actions and gives Jago a heightened sense of power and influence over the course of the film. Lastly, the PM's finishing words at the end of the film saying that the promotion of Othello was just an "experiment" indicates the lack of faith he had in Othello's ability to succeed symbolising the lack of true power handed over to the "nigger" emphasising the institutional racism and white superiority present in the film. 

Thus through the presentation of race and cultural narratives Sax recontextualises Shakespeare's portrayal of power for a modern audience. His transformation of outright racial bigotry and discrimination to a more insidious institutional racism highlights the lack of respect given to people who were considered cultural outsiders and emphasises the power held by those who would use it for their own good not for others. 





