Race and Gender are two key ideas that are constructed within Act 1 of Othello through the characterisation of and treatment of characters within the play. 

Patriarchal ways of thinking dominated society during Shakespeare's time constructed the views of Gender we see within the play. Brabantio's tone and choice of words during his speech against Othello. His tone makes him sound patriarchal and misogynistic. Shakespeare objectifies women through "foul thief", implying the culture of the time and that women were treated as objects that could be stolen from each other. Furthermore, he then uses contrast when Brabantio says "tender, fair and happy." The tri-colon emphasises the evaluation of women during the time and their association with physical beauty with complete disregard of their other capabilities. Thus, patriarchal ways of thinking about gender are constructed through they way Desdemona is addressed in Act 1. 

Race is explored within Act 1 through Othello's treatment by Iago, Roderigo and Brabantio. Othello's treatment by Roderigo and Iago as well as Brabantio's outrage at his marriage to his daughter establishes his position as a cultural outsider in the the opening act. Introduced in the opening scene through racial epithet's, called "Moor" and "thick lips" Othello is never named in the opening scene and is given an animalistic perception excluding him from society. The slurs are deliberately used to diminish him and represent the dominant ways of thinking at the time. Moreover, Brabantio's outrage at Othello's marriage with his daughter further solidified Othello's position as a cultural outsider in Venice. Brabantio uses degrading language when he says "Of such a thing as thou", dehumanising Othello and implying that he is not human demonstrating the world and its values that Othello must contend with. Furthermore, he labels Othello "foul" and "Sooty" indicating the racial stance held against Othello by the people of the time consolidating his position as a cultural outsider. Ultimately, Race within Othello is established through the treatment of Othello, a "moor", who is seen as a menace to society by all bar few. 

Ultimately, Race and Gender are constructed throughout Act 1 through the treatment of Othello and the characterisation of Desdemona. 